---
title: Ocean
date: 2021-01-01
---
Collaboration with Oksana Chepelyk (visual artist).
`role: composer`

*This project's version is currently being revised.*

"The Ocean" is part of "The Independence Without Borders" project as a series of streams at the intersection of sound and media art, vocal and performative practices dedicated to the art study of independence in the broadest sense. The project was created in cooperation with Carbon (Ukraine) and InterAKT Initiative e.V. (Germany) with the support of the Ukrainian Cultural Foundation. Piece reflects on "Independence" and "boundaries" in the aquatic environment of the sea and the ocean. Independence-dependence on the ecological situation and climate change in the context of borders. Migration processes are not only human, but primarily outside of the human being. People migrate, fleeing wars, conflicts, violence, poverty, in search of economic prosperity, environmental problems. Sea creatures migrate freely, but they are tied to their food habitat. Anthropogenic factors and climate change are leading to significant changes in food webs. The main threats to aquatic biodiversity are changes in land and sea use, expansion of urban 'borders', exploitation and destruction of organisms, climate change, including ocean warming, acidification, oxygen depletion, heavier and more frequent rainfall and storms, increased pollution during heavy rainfall in cities and run-off from agricultural land. Work is based on metabolomics data. Metabolomics is a systematic study of the unique chemical 'fingerprints' characteristic of processes occurring in living cells of organisms useful for understanding the functioning of biodiversity and as biomarkers of effect of environmental changes. The interaction between an organism's genome and its environment is precisely reflected in metabolomics. And studies of an organism's metabolome in its earring can serve as an excellent probe of its phenotype, which is a product of its genotype and environment. With the metabolome measurement methodology, data is provided to form a metabolomic profile, which can be visualized as a parabola. In this way, art can join the cognitive practices of monitoring environmental change, shaping a society responsible for a sustainable future. Therefore the focus of the project is to make visible and audible the data of environmental changes and threats to biodiversity from environmental pollution in a data-driven audio-visual work ("liquid" visual patterns, sonification and re-interpretation in music) based on metabolomics data with a development vector from aesthetics to ethics. Sonification of metabolomics data, namely of healthy Spongia lamella from Marseille and sick “Spongia Lubomirskia baikalensis” from Baikal Lake, received at IMéRA art residency in collaboration with CNRS of the Mediterranean Institute of Marine and Terrestrial Biodiversity and Ecology / Marine Station of Endoume. Special thanks for the support to Thierry Perez and Jean Vacelet, to the Mediterranean Institute of Oceanography in Marseille for microscopic video. Project expresses the ethical basis of coexistence with nature, the paradigm of "independence" is transformed into "co-dependence", thus realizing the "ethics of partnership". Art as a tool to strengthen arguments so that future solutions are much better adapted for use by marine planners and stakeholders in view of a changing world.

{{< youtube S6ZXZWzlgM8 >}}

This version of the project is hosted also in [Mozilla Hubs](https://hubs.mozilla.com/hx9GS5M/curvy-modest-gala).