---
title: 1.One
date: 2023-02-02
draft: true
---

“Earth Diary” material in the clarinet part consists of six core feelings that do not leave me since the beginning of the “Covid” era: breaking, slide and carefully, waves, swinging on the rope, running breathing, hidden. These concepts became the starting point of the composition, forming into small motifs that became the “content” of the musical diary. I deliberately did not use numerical data in the process of composing instrumental “theses”, concentrating purely on emotions and guided by the composer’s intuition. The musical “theses” of the diary were formed from the “content”, and these, in turn, became the material for the “summary” — a concentrated introduction to each of the chapters of the “book”. The “introductions” themselves are an iterative (repetitive) process of changing the elements of musical language, which was implemented in SuperCollider. The different processes of timbre modification and selective recombination of clarinet part (performed by Dmytro Pashinsky) were the main parameters influenced by data graphs modified into numerical and audio streams. Later I plan to write the material of the “sections” and “subsections”.
Among the musical inspirations very significant for me is “Mantra” by Karlheinz Stockhausen, the formative principle of which inspired me to create large structures that grow from a small crystal of motifs. As a method of working on recombining the elements of audio recording into a new work, indicative for me is Bernard Parmegani’s “Violostries”.
While working on the project, I often began to think about the philosophy of using numerical data in my works, constantly asking myself: What is numerical data for me now? Does it have extra-musical meanings and which exactly? What is the ratio of data and music that comes out with their help? How does the emotionality of our perception change when we, as listeners, know what the data is? Needless to say, it was ethical issues that prevented me from using Covid’s data.
